(Chanting a mantra)
You have trouble brewing Ramanath!
Something needs to be done!
Come on now! Pray!
Take his blessings!
Hard to find someone like Ramendra Singha!
Rich and religious!
Have you seen the
"Raktamukhi Neela" in his collection?
Where? Show me!
Here!
Exhibition of Jewels by Ramendra Singha.
What is this "Neela"? A diamond?
Blue diamond!
Unlike other diamonds, its price
is not measured by its weight!
It is evaluated, at least in
India, by its divine power.
Specially the "Raktamukhi Neela".
It has special powers!
So tell me... If I have that
"Neela" with me, will my miseries end?
You want to have a ring?
Yes!
Are you even aware of its price?
One of my clients was a
clerk in the East India Company.
Even he was in trouble.
I told him about this Neela.
Somehow he got money to get
one Neela. And he became rich!
All good?
Yes, come! Wait!
We'll go after 11:47 pm. That will
be a good time. Not now.
The ring was not fitting him properly.
Hence the master is not wearing it now.
It's there, right?
Yes. But be very careful!
Let's go! Okay!
Nirmalbabu, I am surprised
by the inefficiency of the police!
I will now be forced to report
to the Police Commissioner!
I request you to have faith
in me, Your Majesty!
I understand that you have
incurred a loss of about 30,000 rupees!
King Mahendra Singha doesn't
care about a loss of 30,000 rupees!
I'm tired of explaining this to you!
I don't care if the criminal gets caught
or not. I just want my "Raktamukhi Neela".
I totally get you, Your Majesty!
But please understand that I have
laid my hands on this case just recently.
Please give me a few days.
See Nirmalbabu...
I will reward the person with 2,000
rupees, who can get me back my Neela!
Please stop! Please!
Please don't hit me like that!
I will tell you who stole it! Yes!
Where have you kept the
Raktamukhi Neela? Tell me!
Find it yourself!
I'm asking because I can't
find it! Speak up now!
I don't know!
You know Satya, soon this
radio will be every household matter!
Can I hear songs, plays
and news on this radio?
Yes. Now you can spend time listening
to this when I am away with Ajit.
What happened?
Let's go for a show of "Grihodaho" on Monday!
Prathamesh Barua's film. Songs by Raichand Baral.
Wait!...Next Monday...
Not possible Satya.
Have a meeting with the Police Commissioner.
They need me for some complicated case.
Let's go!
What do you mean?
So you will spend the next
Monday with the police?
Yes... Why?
Monday is a working day.
What else will I do?
And I will be late that day. I also might
not come back at all. It's a long meeting.
So you will ever spend
the night with the police?
Why are you surprised?
You know my job!
But does it have to be
the next Monday?
But what is so special about
the next Monday? Listen Satya!
What's this?
I asked you something!
I have a problem sleeping
with the lights on!
The list of problems seem
to increase every day!
It can. Humans change. And
you know that very well!
Isn't it?
I don't want to talk about
this Satya!... But... I don't!
Fine!
Hey Ajit!
Ajit?
Open the door!
What happened? You?
Hey!
What happened? At this hour?
So you'll sleep here?
What will your wife say?
Keep quiet! Let me sleep!
What the hell!
Sister-in-law?
If you want tea at this
hour, ask your friend!
Don't irritate me!
Thank God I'm not married!
What happened Ajit?
Didn't sleep well last night?
Sleep?
A good one indeed!
Haven't slept like this
for long Byomkesh!
Bymokesh... He's Ramanath Neogi right?
The one you were talking about?
The All India Radio finally found
time to broadcast a ten days old news!
This is unfair Byomkesh!
News like this is apt for a cold day
like today! Just enjoy the mystery!
Putiram! He has given
us only cold ones!
Give us some chillies as well!
This Ramanath Neogi is
no ordinary criminal!
He's really sharp!
And very intelligent!
And also very courageous!
Hard to find such
people these days!
Such a national tragedy! Huh!
But why is his parole news
being broadcast on radio?
Because Ramanath was caught
and sentenced publicly!
It's been long!
Ten years!
But I remember the
incidents clearly!
I just started working then!
Long before I met you!
Then the best detective of
the Police department was Nirmalbabu.
I heard everything from him.
Jewels started to go missing
from different houses of Kolkata.
The Raktamukhi Neela got stolen
from Ramendra Singha's house then.
Do you believe one can change
his luck by wearing such Neela?
I do!
You-?...He's right you know! He's started to
believe in a lot of hocus pocus after marriage!
Tell her I'm not at all
a conservative Hindu!
But I do believe in the powers
of Raktamukhi Neela!
But the results can vary
from people to people!
It can even cause harm
to many people!
I've seen someone pay even 11000
rupees for a small gem like this!
He ran into a lot of debts
during the Wartime... Wait!
But tell me, was Maharaja
Ramendra Singha's Neela found?
No!
No one came to know where he had
put it away during his imprisonment!
The Police kept the search
on to get the reward of 2000 Rupees!
Sir, the Neela is with Ramanath.
I saw it. Search him properly.
Where's the Neela?
If you speak up, I'll
reduce your sentence.
It was difficult!
A prisoner has hidden a small
jewel like this somewhere!
I wish I got an opportunity
to solve the case!
There was also this
reward of 2000 rupees!
You guys carry on!
I will go to my brother's house!
Hey- Leave it!
And old man... Expensive new
shoes... Still working fine.
Probably travels in cars.
A wealthy man!
Staggers a little!..Ajit!...Is
this possible?
How strange!
Peep and see!
It's Maharaja Ramendra Singha hismelf!
We were talking about him only!
Can you guess why he has come?
Hello!
I'm Bymokesh Bakshi.
Oh! So you guessed
I'll be coming to you!
I'm humbled.
But...
But when the Police couldn't solve your
secretary's death within five days, I thought...
Yes.
You're right.
I was very fond of my
secretary Haripada Das
And his death was so horrible...!
I mean...
Haripada was also not a good man.
But...
You know I like to
change people like them.
I beg your pardon...
Haripada was not a good man?
Did he commit any crime?
He was... what you guys call...
"a dangerous criminal"!
He was in prison
quite a few times.
When he finally came to me
after serving his last sentence...
Your Majesty!... If you can start from the
beginning once, it would be really helpful!
Sure... So it dates back six months.
Goodness!
You have been in
prison four times already?
So when did you get a release?
Yesterday... Your Majesty!
May I know what
crimes you committed?
Theft... Forgery....Fraud
Wow!
Hence the sentence
was long enough!
I get it Haripadababu.
But how can I appoint
someone like you?
Your Majesty... Had I not mentioned my crimes, you would not even come to know!
True that.
I just need another chance...
So what all can you do?
I'm not educated enough.
I have been in prison
when I was 19 years old.
I just learned typing shorthand
out of my own interest.
Your Majesty... If you
just trust me once...
I'll take care of you forever.
Don't know why... But I liked
him from the beginning.
And... I can't disrespect
them for some reason.
And that's why I hired him as
a typist even though I didn't need one.
And I noticed that he is not
only efficient, but also very intelligent.
He used to perform the work,
which was not his own, also very nicely.
Abinashbabu, the Indian State Broadcasting
Agency has been renamed to All India Radio.
Their new office will
be in 1,Gustin Place.
They invited me over. But I have an
appointment with Commissioner Tagore.
Are you ready with the papers
of the Kamarhati factory?... On it!
You're doing it now?
Goodness!
Will he wait for me all day? I
can't talk to him without those papers!
I've put the papers in this file..
What papers?... The one you're looking for!
Oh yes!
Thank you Haripada!
You're now an asset to me!
Just around this time,
my secretary Abinashbabu passed away.
After that, I appointed
Haripada as my secretary.
My own men were
unhappy with this.
I didn't care because
I knew I was right.
Sit down.
What is it?
Need your signature.
Here!
Here you go!
Yes, tell me?... How can you trust Haripada
so much that you signed just like that?
It's okay. I think he has changed
to a good human being.
But still...
I know!
But you know, I think poverty
pushed him to commit crimes.
But now he is not poor. Hence the change.
You can find many like him in prison.
So, tell me now... Yes, this is
the accounts for this month.
Haripada has been performing all his
duties very well for the last few months.
But then what happened last Tuesday...!!!
Shocked me like anything!
It chills me even to think about how
brutally his throat has been slit!
All his vocal cords has been
ripped apart savagely.
Where there any other
marks on his body?
Yes, there was. There was a stab wound
on his chest. And that caused his death.
The blows on the throat came later...
So first he was killed by the stab wound?
And then someone
ripped apart his throat!
That's right! Horrible!
How can a human being be
so brutal? So inhuman?
Look Byomkesh babu, I want you to investigate,
irrespective of what the Police is doing.
The criminal should be
punished. For society.
Do you mind?
No, it's fine. As a matter of fact,
I get along well with the police.
Do you remember how long was
Haripada imprisoned for the last time?
I heard it was for 14 years.
But being a good prisoner,
it was reduced to 11 years.
Your Majesty... Did you notice
anything peculiar about him?
Umm..Peculiar?
You may leave
now. I'll see.
Your Majesty, I'll do any work.
If I don't get shelter here...
Anything else? I mean
any other incident?
Anything else?
Not really... Oh yes!
It's nothing extraordinary.
But I think you should know.
See if you pick up anything.
A precious jewel was stolen from my house-
Raktamukhi Neela!
So you know?
So you might also know that I
had announced a reward of 2000 rupees?
I know. But is it still open?
It's strange. Because Haripada asked
me this same thing the other day.
Your Majesty?
Want to say something?
Can I ask you something
if you don't mind?
Yes?
Yes, tell me?
Will, you still give 2000 rupees as a
reward today if you find your jewel?
How can I expect to find something
which even the police couldn't find?
You never know. Tell me if you will give the
money if someone shows up with the jewel?
I will... But why are you
suddenly asking this?
The thing is I am a poor man. If you assure
to give the money, I can try to find it.
Okay. See what you can do.
Thanks, Your Majesty.
What if I ask you the
same question today?
Yes. But...
Want to know who killed Haripada?
I don't get you.
You know who killed Haripada?
Yes. I do.
But I don't want to gather any
proof against him. It's not my job.
Let the police take care of that.
This is magical. You really
know who killed Haripada?
Yes. It's just a guess as of now.
But I am sure I won't be wrong.
Who is he?... Your Majesty, you should be going
now. It's late. I will call you in the evening.
And yes! You might also
get back your "Neela"!
How is your retired life?
Nice. But as of now, this
is your responsibility.
His Majesty showed up
at my doorsteps today.
Such an old case. I
better buckle up now.
Even I felt the need of a great detective
like Byomkesh at the time of the case.
Why didn't you approach me then?
You were quite young then!
Or is it because I was not famous?
Many thanks Nirmalbabu!
Can we have tea together?
Sure. Come along.
Poilce Commissioner Tagore Sahib!
Cannot do much without me!
Want to have a fry?
I don't mind.
Alright!
These fries are saviors! Can't concentrate
on my work without having them!
Sure. A must need for a
talented person like you.
Did you say something?
No, it's nothing. Let me come to the point.
The murder of Haripada falls
under your jurisdiction, right?
Why are you bothered?
Planning to interfere?
Can't help it Bidhubabu. My habit.
Who is in charge of this case?
Who? I have no clue.
Is it Purnababu?
Yes! Yes! But why?
Nothing much. Just need to
arrest someone and search his place.
Oh God! Again? You better enjoy the cold
outside. Have good food. And here you are!
Okay. I'll do that.
Huh? What?
I'll have good food as you said.
Was just thinking to invite Tagore Sahib
on my way back home. Let's go Ajit... Yes!
Hey! I asked you guys to
call Purnababu so many times!
Slowly!
Search properly!
Yes, Bidhubabu? Tell me!
What? You couldn't find the Neela?
Fine! Keep an eye on him.
I'll be there with His Majesty.
Ajit, call a cab!
Go fast!
Let me show you a picture!
See if you can recognize this man!
Yes. He looks familiar.
Wait!... He was the man who...
Ramanath, you are done for now.
Surrender yourself!
Else no one can save you!
Calm down Ramanath!
Ramanath, I beg of you... Calm down!
Don't get excited. Calm down.
Be careful! He is armed!
Is it?
Even I have arms for him.
Ramanath, I'm Byomkesh Bakshi.
I'm just a simple truth seeker.
Trust me, I'm not
here to harm you.
In fact, I'm here to save you.
Don't try to come close. We're nothing
without each other's help, Ramanath.
Anyway, I want to
tell you all a story.
Not a fictional story like Ajit's.
It's a true story.
Ramanath, I'll try to tell it with all the
facts correct. If I'm wrong, correct me.
Great. Let me start. I'll tell the
incidents after you went to jail.
Ramanath went to prison.
But didn't let go of the Raktamukhi Neela.
He carried it with him. But how did he manage
to hide it? Will you tell that Ramanath?
We'll talk about that later. But you stole a lot
of jewels. Why did you keep this one with you?
Did it have any special powers?
A jewel-like that! So beautiful! Ah!
But you had heard that the jewel
is lucky. Isn't it?
We often tend to mistake
bad people for friends. Isn't it, Ajit?
So Ramanath went to jail. And police
came to know that the Neela is with him.
Tell me where the Neela is. Don't complain
later if your sentence gets increased!
Haripada!
The second prisoner?
Yes, your secretary! He committed crimes from
a very early age. He knew a lot of tricks.
Ramanath came to know of this
one particular trick he knew.
Isn't it, Ramanath?
Will you speak up? Huh?
Haripada, you're not allowed to carry money
inside the prison. How did you get it?
Who said it's not allowed?
You want to see a trick?
See this!
How's that? Nobody can guess!
Do you think only shirts have pockets?
Even our throats have pockets!
How strange! Actually, those who are in prison for long, know this trick!
I have been in prison since childhood. I know
this trick and made pockets inside my throat.
Can you please do me a favour?
Yes, tell me?
Wait!
This!
The police are looking for this! This is my lucky
gem. Can you please hide it in your pocket?
That's it! Gone!
Please take it out again!
Not more than once!...Yes, sure!
See this!
Keep it inside now!
Haripada got shifted to a
different prison the very next day!
There is even record of that
in the prison register!
Haripada got lucky!
Haripada!
Even I am feeling bad. We stayed
together for quite a while. Right?
Don't know if we'll ever meet again!
Take care of yourself Ramanath.
Even I'm feeling sad.
Haripada betrayed him!
He didn't return the Neela
to Ramanath before he left.
Nobody would listen to Ramanath.
Hence he kept quiet.
And from then, he started to
hatch a revenge plan. Right, Ramanath?
And ten years passed like this.
Haripada got released from the
prison and then he came to you.
He wanted to get close with you
and then look for an opportunity.
An opportunity to return the
Raktamukhi Neela to you.
But not for free of course.
He wanted the 2000 rupees reward.
He knew he'll get caught if he tried to
sell it. Hence he didn't go that way.
But you behaved so well with
him from the start, he felt guilty.
He felt guilty to ask for
money from His Majesty.
Thanks to His Majesty's kindness,
even Haripada felt guilty.
What happened after that, Ramanarh?
You won't say?
Fine. I'll say.
You were released from prison ten days
back. Did you know Haripada's whereabouts?
No. I didn't.
You didn't, huh?
But just see the twist of fate!
Within four days, Ramanath got wind of
Haripada in His Majesty's house.
Haripada got unwell
just by seeing Ramanath.
He had no reason other
than that to get sick.
The sense of revenge
hit you again after ten years!
And then that night...
Ramanath, where's the Neela?
I don't know. I don't even know
Haripada. I don't have the Neela.
You're not getting it Ramanath. It's a
cursed stone. Hence you cannot get over it.
Just see how you got caught after you stole
the Neela. You were a free man before that.
And just look what happened to Haripada. See
what you did to his throat where he kept it!
Return the Neela now.
It'll be good for you.
Return it.
It's not good. It's almost
like snake poison.
You'll be a dead man anyway if
you keep it with you any longer.
Give back the Neela, Ramanath.
Ramanath!
Ramanath, I'm warning you!
Byomkesh! Move away!
Watch out Byomkeshbabu!
What the...
Oh Goodness! There it is! Here you
go, Your Majesty! Raktamukhi Neela.
Wow!
I really don't know how to thank you!
I don't want such dangerous Neela!
I don't want it! I want
freedom! I don't want it!
Ramanath!
Follow me!
But no Neela can
tame me, Ramanath!
It's already 8! Don't blame me later
if you are late for the meeting!
Today's Monday?
Umm... Err... I don't think
I'll go to the meeting today!
Fine. I'm going to my
brother's house anyway.
Sort out with Putiram
when you feel hungry.
I love you too much to let you go!
Happy Anniversary, Satya!
You remembered?
Of course! Why won't I?
Happy Anniversary you two!
Many thanks! If you want tea,
ask Putiram. Satya's busy now!
But are you busy as well?
God!... Yes, I'm! Busy in search
of the truth. It'll take time.
Go for it!